.\" Sorry for my English 
.\" --Dmitry Yu Okunev <dyokunev@ut.mephi.ru> 0x8E30679C

.TH KVM-POOL 1 "JANURAY 2016" Linux "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
kvm-pool \- utility to manage KVM (Kernel Virtual Machine) instances as a pool
for VNC.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kvm-pool [ ... ] \-\- [ kvm\-arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kvm-pool
creates a pool of virtual machines using KVM, listens specified port and
proxies connections to instances of the pool.

.SH OPTIONS

This options can be passed as arguments or to be used in the configuration
file.

To disable numeric option set to zero:
.RS
	=0
.RE

To disable string option (for example path to file) set to empty string:
.RS
	=
.RE

Also you can use previously set values while setting new options. Substring
.IR %option_name%
will be substituted with previously set value of option
.IR option_name .
(see 
.BR "CONFIGURATION FILE" )

To set
.I kvm\-arguments
in config file use '\-\-'. An example:
.RS
\-\- = \-net nic \-net tap \-boot n \-m 512
.RE
 
.B \-c, \-\-config\-file
.I path
.RS
Sets path to the config file (see
.BR "CONFIGURATION FILE" ).

Default: "". Changing of this options is not implemented, yet.
.PP
.RE
 
.B \-K, \-\-config\-group
.I string
.RS
Sets configuration group name (see
.BR "CONFIGURATION FILE" ).

Default: "default". Changing of this options is not implemented, yet.
.PP
.RE
 
.B \-m, \-\-min\-vms
.I number
.RS
Minimal number of running virtual machines.

Default: 0.
.PP
.RE

.B \-M, \-\-max\-vms
.I number
.RS
Maximal number of running virtual machines.

Default: 64.
.PP
.RE

.B \-s, \-\-min\-spare
.I number
.RS
Minimal number of spare (idle) virtual machines.

Default: 1.
.PP
.RE

.B \-S, \-\-max\-spare
.I number
.RS
Maximal number of spare (idle) virtual machines.

Default: 8.
.PP
.RE

.B \-r, \-\-kill\-vm\-on\-disconnect
.I [0|1]
.RS
Kill the VM if the client disconnected. It's to prevent getting session of a
one user by another one.

Default: 1. Changing of this options is not implemented, yet.
.PP
.RE


.B \-L, \-\-listen
.I host:port
.RS
Which port to listen for incoming VNC connections.

Default: 0.0.0.0:5900. Changing of this options is not implemented, yet.
.PP
.RE

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE

.B kvm-pool
supports configuration file.

By default
.B kvm-pool
tries to read next files (in specified order):
.RS
~/.kvm-pool.conf
.br
/etc/kvm-pool/kvm-pool.conf
.RE

This may be overrided with option
.IR \-\-config\-file .

.B kvm-pool
reads only one configuration file. In other words, if option
.I \-\-config\-file
is not set and file
.B ~/.kvm-pool.conf
is accessible and parsable,
.B kvm-pool
will not try to open
.BR /etc/kvm-pool/kvm-pool.conf .
Command line options have precedence over config file options.

Configuration file is parsed with glib's g_key_file_* API. That means,
that config should consits from groups of key-value lines as in the
example:
.RS
[default]
.br
max\-vms   = 16
.br
min\-spare = 2
.br

.br
[laboratory]
.br
config\-group\-inherits = default
.br
\-\-        = \-net nic \-net tap \-boot n \-m 512
.br
min\-spare = 4
.RE

In this example there're 2 groups are set - "default" and "laboratory".
And the group "laboratory" inherited setup of the group "default" except options "min-spare".

By default
.B kvm-pool
uses group with name "default". The group name can be set by option
.IR \-\-config\-group .


.SH EXAMPLES

.B Getting a pool of virtual machines booted using PXE with 512MB RAM:
.RS
kvm-pool \-\- \-net nic \-net tap \-boot n \-m 512
.RE

.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Dmitry Yu Okunev <dyokunev@ut.mephi.ru> 0x8E30679C
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kvm (1)

